Everyone.
And welcome back.
In this lecture, we'll be looking at how we can add scene components to any class and how we can expose
these back in the ED before getting started.
I'm just going to organize our head a class little and drop all of the existing public content into
a single public section.
So I'm just copying and pasting this above and then removing the unused public section.
First thing I want to do before adding all of the possible components to the bass classes is to really
consider which will be universal and which will be specific to the tank or the TAAT A.I. classes.
This will then allow us to define the child class specific components in the derived classes a little
bit later and keep the hierarchy as clean as possible and the references and includes per class to a
minimum.
So to get started, we'll be placing all of our components inside of a private section.
So go ahead and declare that.
No.
And the first thing we're going to need in both of the classes will be a U.
Capsule component, which will act as the root components or the very top component in the hierarchy.
And this is going to just be our general collision for the porn's and this is going to be a pointer
named capsule comp.
So capsule components suggest a simple collision.
And this will act, as I said, the collision information for both of our PWN classes for this component
type will also need to forward declare.
So I'm going to do this just above the main class declaration.
And in the previous section, I know that you've covered the includes and how to get the library locations.
So for declarations are something you haven't come across before, though.
These are just a way to keep the number of includes per class to a minimum, which will help us reduce
the compiler times.
The main difference between using an include and a forward declaration is that the include will allow
access to the class that you're referencing to allow you to retrieve things like variables and cool
functions within the other class.
Whilst the four declaration will just make this class aware of the reference.
So in general you tend to use the four declarations in the head of file for external classes just to
let the compiler know that it doesn't need to freak out when it sees an unknown class reference.
And you'll use the includes in the code file as this is where you'll be accessing the details of the
other classes.
Next then in our game, both of the turret and the tank classes will need to use static mesh components,
one for the base match and one for the turret match.
So this is going to be for the tank, the base that moves around for the turret.
That will be the resting base mesh that it would just set on.
And then both of them will have their own turret measures.
That will be the one rotating around and acting as the location for the projectiles spawn from both
of these, again, will be a pointer.
One will be named the base mesh and the second will be our turrets match.
Unlike the capsule component, the actor class will already have an understanding of what these static
mesh component is.
So we won't need to forward declare these.
And finally, to act as an easily editable visual representation of where you want the projectile to
be spawned from when fired, we'll be using a pointer to the U.
Scene component.
And the second component is just a collection of data, essentially, which also includes a transformer
so that we have somewhere to visually represent the exporting location in the world.
And we just named this one to projectile spawn point.
And again, we shouldn't need to forward declare the same components here.
Now, as you'll be familiar with from the previous section, all of the properties with the EU prefix
like we have on all of our properties here, need to have a new property defined above them just as
part of the unreal kind of syntax and workflow.
Just to speed things up here.
I'm going to use the Visual Studio code shortcut of holding the key and clicking on all of the lines
where I want a new property and then just typing that right.
And it will apply this to all of those separate lines.
For the moment, we're just gonna leave these out there and move over to our code file so that we can
create all of these components in the class, because at the moment, all we have is just a bunch of
pointers to various components.
To do this, we need to be inside of our constructor.
We want to cool the create default sub object function.
And then we do this by setting the component that we want to create and we'll start with our capsule
component and create default.
Sub object is just the function which will actually be creating and adding the component inside of our
existing class.
We say that the capsule comp is equal to create default sub object, followed by the angled brackets
as this is expecting to take a class type and the class type is gonna be the same one that we've declared
in the header file.
So for this one, it will be the U.
Capsule component.
And then to complete this in parentheses, we just to find some text for this and provide the name of
the component that we can set inside of a second set of perent.
Seas and double quotation marks.
I'm going to name this one capsule collider.
So, like I mentioned, we want this to be at the top of the hierarchy or the root component.
And because this is the first and only component that we've declared a real world class, this by default
as the root components anyway.
So just for sanity and to avoid any ambiguity in the future, we're just going to set the root component
to be equal to our capsule component.
And that's where you need to do to create a component in your C++ class.
So we'll be doing the same now for our base match.
So this will be base mash equal to create default sub object of type U.
Static mesh component.
And set the text to be named based Meche.
This time, we want to make sure that the base measures placed correctly in the hierarchy.
So we want the MASH to inherit the movement and the rotation of the captured component.
That's what we're gonna be moving around the world when we add the movement functionality to do that.
We call it the setup attachment function in the base match.
And as this is a pointer, we use the arrow operator.
This takes a single argument, which is just going to be the new parent component of the base match.
And as we've already insured, our capsule component is the root component in this class.
We can just pass in the root component as the argument.
Then I'll just copy the base match, create code and paste this below for the turret match as it's using
the same component type.
What we need to do is change any of the text that is currently saying base mesh to be turret mesh.
And then also change the name from base to turrets in the text section as well for the attachment.
We're not going to be attaching this directly to the root component because we want the turret to follow
any movement that the base match may take, because remember, this is being attached to the top of
the base match.
So instead we're going to want to say turret mesh set up attachment to the base mesh.
Okay, so for the final one, has a quick challenge for you.
See if you can take these same steps.
But for the seam component.
So I have the exact steps that you need to take on the screen.
So just pause the video and give this one to go.
Okay, so let's just check the results and go through this step by step.
So we already know that to create the components, we just want to say that our project, our spawn
point, is equal to the create default subject object of call.
The sub point here was to ensure that we use the correct component type.
And that, of course, is in the header file where we've declared this to be a type of you seen component.
And then next I said to give the component in the name projectile spawn point, and that's going to
go in to our text argument, same as we've done before with the other components.
Finally, I just asked you to attach the projectile spawn point to the taht match.
So, again, we're going to take our projectile spawn point and call the set up attachment, directing
it to the target match.
And that's it.
So all of the components are now declared in the header and then created and implemented in the code
file.
The last thing that we need to do is add the include, which in this case is going to be the components
forward slash capsule component.
Take out the top of the code file before moving on to the next lecture.
Let's compile this and check for any potential spelling errors.
Otherwise, we're gonna be good to go for the next step.
And again, as you're likely already to be familiar with, when you were making changes in the previous
section, when you're working with any new implementations or changes in the head, a file is gonna
be recommended that you have the unrelated to closed or at the very least, you close it and reload
the project before hitting the compile in the editor.
So I'm just reloaded my project and our recomposed is just to check for any potential spelling errors
that were coming back successful.
Some of the more experienced among you may have spotted an issue that's going to show when we create
our blueprint class due to how we've left our U.
Properties.
We'll be looking at this and why we get the results that we do and also how to correct those results
in the future lectures.
But I just wanted to have this visual representation to demonstrate the error and what to look out for
when you come back, which is why for the moment, we've left our U.
Properties completely blank.